>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not suggesting that
what you do on the back-end is wrong.
And I don't wanna suggest that what
we do on the front end is wrong.
But they're very different worlds, and
they don't play very well together.
And so we need some sort of buffer zone,
a demilitarized zone, if you will,
a DMZ between these two.
And I formulated these thoughts into
something that I called, the middle end.
What sits between the front-end and
the back-end?
It's the middle end.
And essentially those are a collection of
behaviors that basically every web app,
even web apps today, every web app does.
Things like routing,
things like templating,
things like data formatting and
data validation, things like bundling and
packaging a resources,
responding to API request.
These are things that every single
web application in existence do.
And what they all share in common is
that they all bridge the gap between
the browser and the server.
As opposed to something like your database
rights, which is clearly back-end,
it's clearly business logic, we have all
these pieces that touch the front-end.
So I just started defining
these as middle-end.
And as I started to think about
the middle-end, I say, well,
if I wanna build a nice
clean middle-end and
essentially turn the back-end of
any application into a black box
API a state full API that I can send
at some JSON and get some JSON back.
And I don't care what that back-end is,
it could be .NET today and
it could be Python tomorrow but
there's an API that I send that data.
And then I decide in the middle-end
how to make things ready and
how to adapt things for the front end.
And the middle end gets to design, I'm
talking to a mobile app, or I'm talking to
a web browser, or I'm talking to a robot,
or a smart watch, or whatever.
But the back-end doesn't have to concern
itself with any of those things.
The back-end people don't
like the front-end anyway.
So let's just tell them,
just delete all that code,
just stop dealing with any of that stuff.
Let the middle end handle it.
These are the thoughts I had
in late 2008 and early 2009.
And so I began surveying,
what could I do to write middle-end code,
and write it in JAVA script, and run it.
The same code in the browser and also
on the server, to handle these things,
to talk to each other.
At the time,
there were a couple of options for
putting JavaScript on a server,
but none of them were suitable.
One of them was Rhino,
which was Java's JavaScript engine.
And I happen to be working at a PHP shop
at the time, and there was definitely
no way that a PHP shop was gonna allow
me to install [LAUGH] a Java stack,
just so I could run Rhino to run
JavaScript, that's a bridge too far.
So I wasn't gonna be able to do that.
And there were a couple of other options,
but they had similar problems.
Actually, most of them
seemed to require Java.
Because that was the way to do
platform independence at the time,
it was to make it built on top of Java.
And so essentially, after serving those
I realized, this isn't gonna work.
None of these options are sufficient.
And it was around that same period
of time, I think it had been 2008,
if my history remembers.
But it was around that same period of
time that Google had launched Chrome with
their own JavaScript engine, V8.
And I had remembered, just randomly
reading a blog post somewhere V8 was
a C++ program that you could
literally write your own bindings to.
And I hadn't done C++ in a decade.
But I thought,
I could probably dust off some C++ skills.
So I began to formulate this idea.
What I wanna build is a server side
JavaScript environment that's totally
not based on Java or something like that.
It's gonna use the V8 engine.
It's gonna run JavaScript on the server.
And I'm gonna run these
middle-end tasks in this engine.
So I set out to start building that,
I'd begin doing conference talks about it.
And that project, nobody should use this
anymore it's completely deformed, but
if you are curious it's
still in my GitHub.
It's called bite chain.
I wrote a server side JavaScript
environment, this is all pre node.
environment called bite chain.
And I actually launched a number
of sites for employers and
myself using this idea of middle-end,
where it treated the back-end agnostically
as just an API that it talked to.
And the middle-end handled all those
middle-end tasks, like formatting and
presenting of materials,
templating, all that other stuff.
Well, I'd been working on this for
probably a good six to eight months.
So I was pretty deeply invested in it.
A little beyond proof of concept.
It's more like alpha to
beta stage at that point.
I was using it in production at a couple
of the jobs that I had been at.
And then I get to JS coffe and
Ryan stands up and says, hey,
I've been building this thing for a while.
It's amazing, It's called node.
And we all lost our minds because we
all thought, wow, that's incredible,
like what we're going to be able to do?
Where we're going to be
able to put JavaScript?
And I think a lot of people at
the time and maybe even still today,
ten years later, the message they
took was, that's the answer for
putting JavaScript on the server.
But that's not really what
captured my attention.
Captured my interest in node.
In fact I was a little bit
of a slow adopter to it.
I was excited about the fact
that it was going to exist.
But I was pretty heavily invested
in bite chain at the time and
they were very different models.
Bite chain was a synchronous environment
and node was an asynchronous environment.
I was building it so that you could
call it directly from a PHP script.
And you can't really,
at least at the time,
you can really do something
asynchronous from PHP like that.
So